***The JETSCAPE / SIMS branch*** : 

Currently, the SIMS branch integrates up-to-date bulk medium simulation modules:

1. Trento initial condition (2d and 3d)
2. 3+1D freestreaming
3. 3+1D relativitic viscous hydrodynamics MUSIC
4. iS3D particlization module
5. The hadronic transport model SMASH

# Load libraries on stampede2

   ```bash
      module load intel/18.0.2 cmake/3.7.1 gsl boost hdf5 eigen impi
   ```

# Install Pythia8235

   ```bash
      wget http://home.thep.lu.se/~torbjorn/pythia8/pythia8235.tgz
      tar xvfz pythia8235.tgz && rm pythia8235.tgz
      cd pythia8235
   ```

   Configure it to install into $WORK/software

   ```bash
      ./configure --prefix=$WORK/software
      make
      make install
   ```

   Setup enviroment for pythia

   ```bash
      echo "export PATH=\$WORK/software/bin:\$PATH" >> $HOME/.bashrc
      echo "export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=\$WORK/software/lib:\$LD_LIBRARY_PATH" >> $HOME/.bashrc
      echo "export PYTHIA8DATA=\$WORK/software/share/Pythia8/xmldoc/" >> $HOME/.bashrc
      echo "export PYTHIA8=\$WORK/software" >> $HOME/.bashrc
      source $HOME/.bashrc
   ```


# Compilation on stampede2 TACC

1. Clone the SIMS branch into the `$WORK` directory (make sure it is sims branch)

   ```bash
      cd $WORK && pwd
      git clone -b sims https://github.com/amajumder/JETSCAPE-COMP.git
      cd JETSCAPE-COMP && git branch
   ```

2. Remark: SMASH has to be compiled before JETSCAPE. 
  
   Stempede has cmake, gsl, boost and eigen3 installed already, except for pythia which should have been in you system path from the last section. Then, activate all the environments by running the sims activation script (make sure the paths are set correctly)

   ```bash
      source <JETSCAPE>/sims_scripts/prepare_compilation_stampede2_2.sh
   ```

   Then, go to the external modules directory and download `smash` (also compiles `smash`), `iS3D`, `freestream-milne`, `music` by
   
   ```bash
      cd <JETSCAPE>/external_packages/
      ./get_modules_for_sims.sh
   ```

3. Compile JETSCAPE SIMS program

   Go back to the JETSCAPE folder, and then

   ```bash
      mkdir build && cd build
      cmake -Dmusic=on -DiS3D=on -Dsmash=on -Dfreestream=on ../
   ```
   
   In case you want to install the executables to a designated path and later add to system path (e.g. $WORK/software/bin). You can add the path flag to the Cmake command by,
   
   ```bash
      cmake -DCMAKE_INSTALL_PREFIX=$WORK/software/ -Dmusic=on -DiS3D=on -Dsmash=on -Dfreestream=on ../ 
   ```

   Remember to switch on all those compilation flags to use external modules.

   ```bash
      make
      make install
   ``` 

# Run simulation locally (not recommanded to run on login nodes)

   If you want to run the program elsewhere than the build folder, or if you are writting the job submit scrit. Make sure you have set the `PATH`, `LD_LIBRARY_PATH` and PYTHIA paths. For example, create a testing folder under `build/`
   
   ```bash
      mkdir <build>/test
      cd <build>/test
   ```
   
   Then, set the following to have things work properly, 

   ```bash
      export PATH=$WORK/software/bin:$PATH
      export LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$WORK/software/lib:$LD_LIBRARY_PATH
      export PYTHIA8DATA=$WORK/software/share/Pythia8/xmldoc
      export PYTHIA8=$WORK/software
   ```

   Also, remember to copy the inputfiles (can be found in `build/` after compilation) for all programs to the test folder, including,
   
   * `freestream_input` : free-stream configure file
   * `EOS/` : contains hydro equation-of-state tables
   * `music_input` : hydro configure file  
   * `iS3D_parameters.dat` : particle sampler iS3D configure file
   * `deltaf_coefficients/` : contains delta-f correction coefficients
   * `PDG/` : hadron info for sampler iS3D
   * `tables` : integration tables for sampler iS3D
   * `smash_input/` : a folder that contains smash configure files
   * `jetscape_init.xml` : the JETSCAPE configure file

   ***Remark***: initial condition normalization parameter should be set in `jetscape_init.xml` via the `trento` block, the `s_factor` in `music_input` should be set to `1.0`.

   Now it should be good to go. The first executable `TRENTO_FS_HYDRO` runs trento initial condition, freestream and music hydro. Then `mkdir input && cp surface.dat input/` before running the next step. The second executable `SAMPLER_AFTERBURNER` runs particle sampler iS3D and SMASH hadronic afterburner. 

# Submit job to stampede2

   The workflow for event simulation has been written into `sims-scripts/submit/run-events`. The job is submitted to the cluster by the slurm submit files `submit_simple` and `submit_launcher` under `sims-scripts/submit`. 
   The first one uses `srun` so that each cpu on each node is assigned a job to do, and it finishes when the last cpu finishes its task.
   The second one uses the `launcher` application that is available on `stampede2`. 
   The `launcher` will submit a list of jobs generated by `submit_launcher` to the nodes you requrest whenever there is a free cpu, so it is a very efficient way to use up our allocations.
  
   Generate the input files in the `input-config` folder first and then go to the submit folder to submit jobs. 
   The jobs will be run from `$SCRATCH`, and write logs to `$SCRATCH/<job number>/`. The results will be returned to the `submit/<job number>/` folder in a python binary format that can be found in `run-events`
  
   ```bash
      cd sims-scripts
      cd input-config
      ./generate_module_input_files.py
      cd submit
      sbatch submit_launcher # or sbatch submit_simple
   ```

# Todo
 
   * A python workflow control script is in progress
   * We should provide a set of sample configure files
   * A script to calculate observables for each event
   * A sample job submisstion script for stampede2
   * and more...

