This file contains instructions for files

	p1.dat, p2.dat, p3.dat, p4.dat
	t1.dat, t2.dat, t3.dat, t4.dat
	s1.dat, s2.dat, s3.dat, s4.dat
	pichem1.dat
	pidens1.dat

These files are ALMOST in the AZHYDRO format for EoS tables, but there
are two differences: First, in AZHYDRO the values are listed from low
energy density up, whereas here they are listed from high density
DOWN. Second, the grid spacing and number of grid points on the second
line are in a different order.

As one may guess, the files p*.dat contain pressure (in GeV/fm^3),
t*.dat temperature (in GeV) and s*.dat entropy density (in fm^-3) as
function of energy density and the baryon number density. The trick is
that the EoS does NOT depend on baryon number density, but to be able
to use the EoS and interpolating routines of AZHYDRO, it is tabulated
as if it did depend.  Thus the numbers related to net baryon number
density still appear even if this EoS is for mu_b=0.

Tables *1.dat contain values from energy density 0.001 GeV/fm^3 to
1.001 GeV/fm^3, *2.dat from 1.001 GeV/fm^3 to 11.001 GeV/fm^3, *3.dat
from 11.001 GeV/fm^3 to 61.001 GeV/fm^3 and *4.dat from 61.001
GeV/fm^3 to 311.001 GeV/fm^3.

In each file, the first row contains two numbers, the lowest baryon
density (nb0) and lowest energy density (e0). The second row contains
the grid spacing in baryon density (dnb) , number of columns (nnb),
the spacing in energy density (de) and the number of rows (ne) (from
third row on). So, the value on row 3, is the pressure/temperature/
entropy density at energy density e0*(ne-1)*de, and the last row
corresponds to values at energy density e0.

The EoS does not depend on baryon density - both columns contain
exactly the same values. But this way one can use the two-dimensional
interpolation routine of AZHYDRO.

The files pichem1.dat and pidens1.dat contain the pion etc. chemical
potentials (in GeV, zero above T_chem) and corresponding number
densities (in fm^-3). Note that the pion number density in
pidens1.dat-file is not the density of actual pions, but the density
of pion number as defined by Bebie et al. and used in all chemically
frozen hadron gas -studies. These files cover the same energy density
range than the other *1.dat files. The number on the first row is
again the energy density at the lowest grid point (e0), the second row
contains the grid spacing in energy density, and the number of grid
points. No redundant baryon density in these file, since these files
are not necessarily needed in VISH2+1 and their format differes from
AZHYDRO files in any case.

The third row contains one single number, which is the number of
columns. This is also the number of conserved particle numbers during
the chemically frozen stage. The large number is due to me treating
each isospin state as a separate particle. Which particle each row
correspond to can be found using the file hidut.dat, see README3.

The ordering is the same than in the pressure etc. files, the first
row of the actual table corresponds to the highest energy density
(e0+(ne-1)*de) and the last to the lowest (e0). Thus the values in the
beginning of pichem1.dat table are zero - 1.001 GeV/fm^3 is well above
the chemical freeze-out temperature. Densities at the begining of the
pidens1.dat file are not zero but correspond to the equilibrium
values.

The chemical potentials for each resonance can be obtained in the
usual Bebie et al. fashion, i.e. the potential of each resonance is
the sum of all chemical potentials multiplied by the corresponding
"particle number" of the resonance. These are the are the average
numbers of the particle in question formed when the resonance
decays. I have not listed these numbers anywhere, but evaluate them
using the particle data in pdg.dat file (see README3) at the beginning
of the spectra calculation.
